# Qissues Querying

## View Single

Run `qissues view [x]` to view details about a specific issue. Optionally specify `--no-comments` to disable comments.

## qissues [query]

Run `qissues` (or `qissues query`) to do a basic repository query.

### Filters

Many filters allow multiple values, but it'll depend on the tracker.

- `-s` Filter by status
- `-t` Filter by type
- `-p` Filter by priority
- `-l` Filter by label (or component)
- `-i` Filter by id(s)
- `-a` Filter by assignee
- `--mine` Filter by assignee (me)

### Sorting and Paging

To sort, specify the `s` option. Support will depend on the tracker.

Pagination works through a combination of the `--limit` and `--page` options. Tracker implementations vary, so there is no standard 'next page' option yet.

### Output Modes

Out of the box, Qissues tries to be somewhat responsive. There are three built in views that trigger based on the size of the terminal window. You can override them or create your own.

- `-z` Change size (change view)

### Reports

You can save searches as reports for easy viewing later by defining them in your configuration:

    reports:
        bugs:
            statuses:
                - open
            labels:
                - bug

Configuration options are basically the plural version for all filters, and everything supports multiple values.

If you define a `default` report, it'll automatically be called for empty queries (running `qissues`). As soon as you add any additional filters, the default report will be ignored. Alternatively, you can specify a `--no-report` option.


Built in views:
- `detailed` (default for large)
- `basic` (default for medium)
- `tiny` (default for small; good for side pane)
- `json` good for piping to other programs

## Open In Web

Both view and query support a -w flag to launch in your browser. However, filtering will not transfer over to the web version (maybe later).

It tries to use your operating system's built in method to open a website, but if that doesn't work, you can configure it by adding `console.browser.command: browser-name` to `~/.qissues`
