# Working with Qissues

# Creating and Editing Issues

You can run `qissues create` to post a new issue. Similiarly, `qissues edit x` to edit an issue. Qissues will take your input and fire it in the tubes.

## Input Strategies

Unless you manually specify an input strategy (with `--strategy=x`), it'll go through the following, and finally default to `console.input.default_strategy`, which you can configure in your `.qissues` file.

### File Editor ('edit')
By default, Qissues will launch a text editor ($EDITOR) and prepopulate it with a frontmatter YAML file. The format is as follows:

    ---
    title:
    other_field:
    another_field:
    ---

The portion between the ---s is YML, and you are meant to specify the issue body below. Example:

    ---
    title: The Internet is DOWN!
    assignee: AdrianSchneider
    labels: emergency, lol
    ---
    The internet is currently down. I cannot post TPS reports.

The system is abstracted enough that you an swap in another flie format with relative ease. More on that in customization doc.

To override the editor, you can change `console.editor`.

### CLI Options ('options')
If you specify any `-d field=value` values, it will trigger the options strategy. Example:

    qissues create -d "title=Hello World" -d "description=Why, hello there"

### Standard Input ('stdin')
If you pipe input to qissues, you need to trigger the stdin strategy. It works the same as the file editor, but allows you to pass input in directly. It will rely on the `console.input.default_format`. Combined with the json format, it should allow for easy programmatic modifications.

### Interactive ('interactive')
You can also input fields interactively. However, it's a little harder to go back and make changes.
